Hello and welcome back in today's lecture we will be learning about and and or statements in a school
as you can see our Microsoft skills Server Management Studio open up.
I have my consumer complaints database ready to go with consumer complaints table with all the columns
inside of it.
All good.
Ready to go.
So let's go ahead create new equerry in which we'll say select all from consumer complaints.
Just our basic query that we'll just be doing a lot in this course just to identify what we will be
working with inside of each lecture.
So as you can see here we have a lot of data saying previous 65000 rows.
Nothing has changed so a huge amount of data.
And what I'm going to be showing you today or rather what we're going to be learning to use today is
two very interesting words in a school.
One is and then the other one is or as you can see there are not functions that are not lit up by blue
light.
There is a number of them that are just like this even equal signs the same grade.
Nice color as well as you can see star here.
So just nothing to be worried about.
Just remember that they still exist and they're very useful and they come useful.
A lot of times.
So what we're going to be working today with is the first task.
Let's say your employer talks the he gives you this database and he tells you hey can you please go
ahead and give me products the shoes and the companies that have anything to do with states of New York
and California.
So what are you going to be doing is you're going to be obviously first working with the select statement
you're going to be saying hey I want to only slight product name then I only want to select issue then
I only want to like company.
Then I only want a select state.
So now that you have this figure it out it wasn't that hard because basically he told me exactly what
he wanted to see.
What's the hard part is figuring out how to narrow that data down.
And as we already know we're going to be using a function in our case we will be working with state
things.
So let's go ahead and immediately put them out.
Now our life is a bit easier.
All we have to do is figure out what to do with the state.
Well first of all we need to display everything from the state of New York so we put equals apostrophe's
New York and now because she wants everything to be displayed from the states of New York and California
what you can say is that where state name equals New York and state name equals the Fornier if we try
and run this right now what will happen.
Do you think everything will be shown as we expected.
No.
Zeroes of data return and this is very easy to explain because what he wanted us to display to him is
everything products issue companies that come from either New York or California states.
So in a well that and specifies a very very precise thing that you want the state name to be both New
York and California at the same time as you can see in our table that just impossible because every
single row of data is tied to only one state if any at all.
So instead of writing this we need to do is swap and four or and we get to go if we get it now we'll
get 14000 rows of data which is bigger than just the roll of data for New York.
So it obviously is working.
And if we go down we can see that New York and California are inside of here.
Now another interesting thing is that most of the time it's up to you whether you want to put state
name into the select function because if we're in all of this and we're going to call it before it nothing
will change it will give us the exact same amount of those exact same data because there were functions
still being execute.
It still works.
We just don't see the state column here and why I'm saying this is a personal preference.
Most of the time is because you can present this data to your employer.
And if he knows what you're talking about if he knows what he ask you to do he might be OK with it he
might say hey that's all right.
That's awesome.
Thank you very much.
And he might even be grateful for you to not wasting more paper by printing out more columns or more
incrusted.
But if you're working with anybody who has no idea what the database contains what the tables contain
or what exactly they're looking for or just unsure of working with there's data printing this out just
showing them the state name as well as every other day that you found is a very good idea because by
looking at it they will be immediately able to identify that hey this came from California.
This came from New York.
So that's the first thing and second thing is that they can see that you've made no mistake.
Because who knows if they trust you enough.
They understand how rescue works.
They just might don't have that level of confidence in you.
Most of the time I would recommend to put this in here to just display it all the time because it's
easier for you to see any mistakes you made and it's easier for them to understand what you're talking
about.
But if you feel very confident and if you know that your clients or your employers will be happy about
it you can't just avoid putting it there.
But again as I said most of the time it's personal preference.
Now let's do something else fun.
In this case again just delete all of this or rather just create an inquiry in which again as the guests
will say select all from consumer complaints now who run it.
What we'll see is the same same same old information with soap before.
But what I'm curious is is how can we use the end.
So where and instead of it will use and how can we use it as you could see when we asked it to show
STATE name equals New York and state name equals California that did not work.
Obviously that didn't work because it was in the same column in the column that has only one information
in it.
Only one instance of State in it.
So the best way to use and is to use it with two different columns.
So what we can say is that we want to display all the products that came from the state of New York
and that had time to respond.
Indicated as yes.
So we want to select all the products so so like product name from consumer complaints where state name
equals apostrophe's New York and timely response equals apostrophe's.
Yes.
So if we run this now you will see that we get only four thousand three hundred thirty four rows of
data.
So let's just put a stage name inside of here.
So we see what's happening behind the scenes and time the response here as well and you get it now as
you can see mortgage game from State of New York Times response yes student loan came from New York
time response yes.
Now a bit more insight will be given to us if we put in the company.
And as you can see I'm putting it in between product name and state name because I want it to be displayed
in that order.
I don't want it to be displayed in the very end or in the very beginning of the table.
So now we see product name company state name and Taimanov response.
It's very interesting to see which companies from the state of New York had a time response concerning
which products in our case we can see that GBM Morgan had a mortgage and credit card and bank accounts
are within again mortgaged that they all answered in a timely fashion.
Of course this is just the beginning of this very complicated query that can go on forever just trying
to identify which exact companies in which exact instances the answer to their customers in timely fashion
and then get to the bottom of it by answering the question why what was different to this case.
Do all the other cases where they didn't answer in time maybe it wasn't their problem maybe it was the
problem of the service providers maybe it was something to do with consumers having different privileges
or different abilities or there's a lot of data you can track from it in theory and all you have to
be doing for it is just adding and tag.
For example you can add here that I also want tags to be equals older American.
And if we're on this now we will get.
Sorry about that.
We just put it in here as well just to get a bit more insight.
As you can see now we only have 300 rows of data and all of them have tags older Americans so.
So as you can see and is a very powerful tool to use and as well as well as or and combination of them
can be very useful for you to identify any particular sort of type or amount of data that you want.
Never forget.
And or in Eskew all that are very powerful they're very useful not only they allow you to write one
query instead of writing two three four five.
They also love you to narrow your data down to extreme levels just by using these two small very powerful
words.
I hope you enjoy this lecture and I hope you learnt a lot today and understood a bit more about what
you can do to data why you should do it and in which ways you can narrow it down using which tools and
really looked that glimpse of them so far but they were ready as you can see can narrow 65000 rows of
data to about 300 which is absolutely insane when writing this very small very precise very neat query.
And as always I hope you enjoy this lecture and I'll see you in the next one.